Infections occur when large amounts of bacteria
sneak past the body's natural defenses and multiply.
Quinolones are antibiotics that treat a variety of bacterial infections.
When an infection occurs within a body
bacteria multiply quickly
and release chemicals that build up and lead to illness
and in severe cases, death.
All of the genetic material that drives the bacteria to multiply
is contained in the bacteria's nucleus.
Quinolones easily enter bacteria cells through small holes
allowing them to access the nucleus.
Two specific enzyme are needed by bacteria to copy its DNA
and create more bacteria.
Quinolones block both types of enzymes
so the bacteria's DNA cannot be copied.
If bacteria cannot be copied,
they cannot multiply and cause an infection.